# DP-UNet
Abstract
Computer-aided diagnostic imaging plays a pivotal role in detecting COVID-19 lung infections. Nonetheless, challenges arise due to COVID-19 resemblance to other pneumonias and the intricate nature of CT imaging.
The U-Net distinctive encoder-decoder architecture gained initial prominence in medical image segmentation. However, it encounters a challenge in losing global contextual information during encoder pooling and decoder upsampling operations.  and it is ability to leverage global information fully, leading to an increased semantic gap between feature maps in the encoding and decoding stages. This work proposed a novel model of the dual branch attention multi-layer encoder and progressive fused pyramid pooling network (DP-UNet) for COVID-19 Infection Region Segmentation. The model architecture includes dual branch attention multi-layer encoder modules, dual branch attention encoder modules exploit enough contextual information from the input lung infection images through dual branch extraction operations, the lateral branch comprises an enhanced parallel concurrent spatial and channel squeeze and channel excitation module, designed for recalibrating channel attention. At the interface of the encoder and decoder, we propose a progressive fusion pyramid pooling module. This module utilizes multi-scale pooling and continuous upsampling operations to expand the model utilization of global contextual information by integrating semantic information from different scales. It aims to increase the model ability to finely delineate the boundaries of COVID-19 lung lesions and facilitate the integration of various-scale semantic details within the infected lung regions while minimizing the addition of model parameters. The experimental results revealed that the proposed method had a DSC of 0.8459, indicating that the proposed method outperforms the other comparative models on COVID-19 infection region segmentation. Therefore, the proposed method has the potential for application in the detection, labeling and segmentation of other lesion areas.
